# Ask
#### 1.0 Background
Bellabeat is a high-tech manufacturer of beautifully-designed health-focused smart products for women since 2013. Inspiring and empowering women with knowledge about their own health and habits, Bellabeat has grown rapidly and quickly positioned itself as a tech-driven wellness company for females.

The co-founder and Chief Creative Officer, Urška Sršen is confident that an analysis of non-Bellebeat consumer data (ie. FitBit fitness tracker usage data) would reveal more opportunities for growth.

#### 1.2 Business Task:
Analyze FitBit Fitness Tracker Data to gain insights into how consumers are using the FitBit app and discover trends and insights for Bellabeat marketing strategy.

#### 1.3 Business Objectives:
What are the trends identified?
How could these trends apply to Bellabeat customers?
How could these trends help influence Bellabeat marketing strategy?

#### 1.4 Deliverables:
A clear summary of the business task
A description of all data sources used
Documentation of any cleaning or manipulation of data
A summary of analysis
Supporting visualizations and key findings
High-level content recommendations based on the analysis
1.5 Key Stakeholders:
Urška Sršen: Bellabeat’s cofounder and Chief Creative Officer
Sando Mur: Mathematician, Bellabeat’s cofounder and key member of the Bellabeat executive team
Bellabeat marketing analytics team: A team of data analysts guiding Bellabeat's marketing strategy.

# Prepare

#### 2.1 Information on Data Source:
The data is publicly available on Kaggle: FitBit Fitness Tracker Data and stored in 18 csv files.
Generated by respondents from a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between 12 March 2016 to 12 May 2016.
30 FitBit users who consented to the submission of personal tracker data.
Data collected includes (1) physical activity recorded in minutes, (2) heart rate, (3) sleep monitoring, (4) daily activity and (5) steps.

#### 2.2 Limitations of Data Set:
Data collected from year 2016. Users' daily activity, fitness and sleeping habits, diet and food consumption may have changed since then, hence data may not be timely or relevant.
Sample size of 30 female FitBit users is not representative of the entire female population.
As data is collected in a survey, hence unable to ascertain the integrity or accuracy of data.

#### 2.3 Is Data ROCCC?
A good data source is ROCCC which stands for Reliable, Original, Comprehensive, Current, and Cited.

Reliable - LOW - Not reliable as it only has 30 respondents
Original - LOW - Third party provider (Amazon Mechanical Turk)
Comprehensive - MED - Parameters match most of Bellabeat's products' parameters
Current - LOW - Data is 5 years old and is not relevant
Cited - LOW - Data collected from third party, hence unknown
Overall, the dataset is considered bad quality data and it is not recommended to produce business recommendations based on this data.

#### 2.4 Data Selection:
The following file is selected and copied for analysis.
dailyActivity_merged.csv

# Process

We are using Python to prepare and process the data.

#### 3.1 Preparing the Environment
The numPy, pandas, matplotlib, datetime packages are installed and aliased for easy reading.

# import packages and alias
```HTML
import numpy as np # data arrays
import pandas as pd # data structure and data analysis
import matplotlib as plt # data visualization
import datetime as dt # date time
```
#### 3.2 Importing data set
```HTML
# read_csv function to read the required CSV file
daily_activity = pd.read_csv("../Germs/Downloads/Bellabeat/Fitabase Data 4.12.16-5.12.16/dailyActivity_merged.csv")
```
#### 3.3 Data cleaning and manipulation
Steps

1.Observe and familiarize with data

2. Check for null or missing values

3. Perform sanity check of data

Previewing using head function to show the first 10 rows of daily_activity to familiarise with the data.
```HTML
# preview first 10 rows with all columns
daily_activity.head(10)
```
Then, finding out whether there is any null or missing values in daily_activity.

```HTML
# obtain the # of missing data points per column
missing_values_count = daily_activity.isnull().sum()

# look at the # of missing points in all columns
missing_values_count[:]
```
Finding out the basic information of daily_activity:

1. no. of rows and columns
2. name of columns
3. type of value

```HTML
# show basic information of data
daily_activity.info()

<class 'pandas.core.frame.DataFrame'>
RangeIndex: 940 entries, 0 to 939
Data columns (total 15 columns):
 #   Column                    Non-Null Count  Dtype  
---  ------                    --------------  -----  
 0   Id                        940 non-null    int64  
 1   ActivityDate              940 non-null    object 
 2   TotalSteps                940 non-null    int64  
 3   TotalDistance             940 non-null    float64
 4   TrackerDistance           940 non-null    float64
 5   LoggedActivitiesDistance  940 non-null    float64
 6   VeryActiveDistance        940 non-null    float64
 7   ModeratelyActiveDistance  940 non-null    float64
 8   LightActiveDistance       940 non-null    float64
 9   SedentaryActiveDistance   940 non-null    float64
 10  VeryActiveMinutes         940 non-null    int64  
 11  FairlyActiveMinutes       940 non-null    int64  
 12  LightlyActiveMinutes      940 non-null    int64  
 13  SedentaryMinutes          940 non-null    int64  
 14  Calories                  940 non-null    int64  
dtypes: float64(7), int64(7), object(1)
memory usage: 110.3+ KB
```
